[Music]
enemy cmos logic what happens is that
there are two phases of operations
it happens with the clock signal
whenever the clock is equal to zero
we call it as an a pre-charged state if
the clock equal to
one we call it as an evaluate state
means until the next
phase is uh occurred or until the next
stage has been uh
has arrived this particular logic is
going to be
stored in that particular uh what is
that capacitor or the it is stored as in
capacitance
next once the next stage is arrived then
that logic will be sent to the next
phase of the design so that is the
meaning of it is a temporary storage in
the
temporary storage of the output levels
that will remain only for the short
period of time
the static logic retains its output
levels as long as the power is applied
in the static it is not the same in the
static what happens until the power is
supplied the output will be remained
there but in the dynamic what happens
depending upon the switching of the
clock which is connected as an input to
the transistors
the output will be stored there for
until the next clock arrives
so that is the meaning of uh it's a
temporary storage
logic so now here in the dynamic logic
is normally done with the charging and
selectively discharging the capacitor
capacitances that is uh where are those
capacitors
circuit nodes now here if you want any
of the operation to be
uh any any one part of that model to be
operated very fastly there you
will try to discharge that particular
capacitor so that
the discharging means that output has
been obtained then so that it it gives a
path for the next
stage of the design to obtain its
output so how the output is obtained
only when the capacitor is fully charged
so if a capacitor is fully charged we
say that output is obtained
and if the capacitor is fully discharged
we say it is
giving a path for the next phase of the
design to
obtain its output so that's the meaning
of selectively discharging the capacitor
whether you need required
the speed of the particular signal or
wherever you need the performance of the
signal to be
enhanced so let us see now see now it is
a pre-charge phase and the
evaluates phase in the pre-charge clock
it is a
the clock to charge the capacitance that
is a clock equal to clock signal equal
to zero
is a pre-charge state evaluate state is
a clock which is used to discharge the
capacitance depending upon the
conditions of the
logical inputs so now we will study
about this one in the coming slides what
is pre-charge and what is discharge
uh and what is evaluate with respect to
some examples
so let us see now advantages of this
dynamic cmos logic over the static
it avoids the duplicating of the logic
logic
twice as a both entry and the p3
has in this uh standard cmos logic so
here you will not be having any kind of
a duplicating uh
uh duplicating of the what is that uh
entries or the p3s peters or entrance of
nothing else but
network so nmos network and the pmos
networks you'll not be having a
duplication because in the static we
have seen that
it requires some n number of gates if
there are n inputs are there then it
requires two n types of uh
devices but that kind of duplication is
not uh
taken place here typically it can be
used in very high performance
applications
the dynamic cmos logic is used in the
very high performance application next
one
it is used in the sequential memory
circuits
and also it is used and amenable to the
synchronous logics
it is used mostly in the synchronous
logics and also in the sequential memory
circuits
next one is a very high density
achievable
high density achievable means you can
fit large number of devices in the
networks in the trees
in the nmos or pmos trees you can fit
more number of transistors
so it's a it's a denser logic and it
also consumes a lesser power in some
cases
now coming to the disadvantage we'll
talk about some cases
in the next slides uh coming to
disadvantages
compared to the static logic the problem
with the
clock synchronization and timing so now
here what happens is that
since we are having two different clocks
the clocks has to arrive at the same
time
if the clocks are arriving at the same
time then only we can say that
the inputs which have been given to the
particular tree
or particular network will be arriving
or will be moving at the same
time phase but if one clock is arriving
at one particular
time and other clock is arriving uh with
a delay then what happens
the first signal will be going faster
but whereas the second signal
it will be delayed so that's a major
problem we'll see when that one in the
graphs of the
dynamic cmos strategy another one the
designs is more complex
more difficult why because more number
of trees
in the more number of transistors have
been connected and it's also a dense
uh dense network
so now this is a small uh explanation
about how the cmos
dynamics cmos looks like it's like it's
a two-step operation
the pre-charge state will be there and
evaluate state will be there why do we
use a pre-charge state the pre-charge
state is mainly used
in order to charge the uh signal and uh
that is a
to the high uh to the logic high and the
evaluate state is mainly used to
discharge this
clock signal cs means it's a clock
signal a
clock signal this is the phi which you
see this is a clock signal here also you
can see the clock signal
so now whenever the clock is equal to
zero if a clock equal to zero the pmos
is turned on
whenever the pmos is turned on what
happens the output is fully charged why
because
the vdd will flow to the clock and it
will be stored
the car it is stored as a charge in this
capacitor
that's why the capacitance will be
formed here and but whenever it is clock
is
evaluate evaluate means what clock equal
to one if clock equal to one what is
what happens the pmos is off
and n mos will be turned on if n was
turned on then the complete whatever the
charge is stored
that will be discharged depending upon
this transistors
inputs let me say now if this this
transfer is turned on
then this complete what are the
capacitor capacitance is stored in the
previous state
of recharge it will be discharged from
this capacitor to the ground terminal so
that is a that's the meaning of
how the evaluate and pre-charge will be
working you can see you know
this is a pre-charge state in the
pre-charge state what happens the
capacitance is
you can see the high high high value so
if it is equal to 0 the value will be
high
whenever this is a one uh even that
that's the evaluate state again it's a
pre-charge state
so this is this one is regarding the
clock uh these are inputs
and these are the two pre-charge and
evaluate state functions
and this is a small explanation about
what is meant by dynamic in order to
give an idea about this one
now let us study in detail about what is
dynamic cmos logic
in the dynamic cmos logic the circuit
relies on a complementary storage of
the signal values on the capacitance of
high impedance node
this one here is a it will rely on the
com
temporary storage logic why because the
signal is stored here temporarily
for the phase of this clock if the clock
is equal to zero
then the store the capacitor will be
stored or the it will be
filled with the capacitance or that it
will be filled with the capacitor or the
capacitor is fully charged
whenever the clock equal to one this
pmos is turned off and the nmos is
turned on that's why the discharging
takes place
so it says temporary storage uh logic
here and it requires yeah n plus two uh
n plus two uh devices this particular
dynamic cmos logic requires
n plus 2 what is this meant by n plus 2
since here
this block is a pull-up pull-down
network
pull down if there are n number of
pull-down network then the
n transistors will be n plus 1 it will
be n plus 1
plus one the pmos so it will be like
n plus two uh devices required whereas
if i
consider for the cmos structure or
static sigma structure
for the same operation uh for the same
operation what is this operation
it is like both the nmos are in series
both inverse are in series
if nmos are in series means citizen b
dot c
b dot c plus a it means it is like the
operation for this one is
y equal to for this network the
operation is
y equal to a plus a plus b dot
c y equal to
this is operation this is a boolean
equation for this network it is a plus
a plus bc that is b dot c so now if
you can see what will be the uh value of
this one
a plus b b dot c means what you require
there are three different uh
inputs here three different inputs means
you you need a three p mos and three n
mods
though ultimately what will be there
three p mos three and m
you you it's like now we need six
different transistors here
six different transistors but here you
can see there are only
uh five transfers so number of
transistors have been decreased for this
one for this particular
uh device or for this particular
operation
and this is a
block diagram of dynamics cmos logic
first you'll be having a pmos two the
clock will be connected and here down it
is a footer uh for this nmos is
connected
and now in between there will be
pull-down network this is a pull-down
network which defines your boolean
equation
and this uh this complete this emp and
me
are compulsory this is a pre-charged
mosfet and this
evaluates mosfet mp means pre-charge
mosfet me means
evaluate mosfet clock this is a clock
signal whichever you supply here
and this one did not denotes your
boolean equation
and this is the same one which we have
taken it is a uh
now here the inputs are changed here so
i can write it as a dot b
plus c the boolean equation here it is
since both the inverse are in
series the operation will be a dot b for
n was and it is this two are in parallel
to the c so it will be plus
a dot b plus c y equal to a dot b plus c
is a boolean equation and this is a
circuit diagram for
boolean equation y equal to a dot b plus
c
using the dynamic cmos logic structure
so now let us study in detail about this
one uh
can anyone tell me what is a boolean
equation of this circuit
what is the boolean equation of this
circuit
all three nmos are in series and again
those three nmos are parallel to the two
nmos which are in again in series if
that is the case your boolean equation
will become as
a1 dot a2 dot a3
plus b1 dot b2 so that becomes your
boolean equation for this one
why because all the n was nmos will be
in series only for a
dot operation so now you since this dot
operation
a1 dot a2 dot a3 dot
this will be taken in bracket plus this
both are in again in a
series so it is b1 dot b2 and this b1 b2
is in parallel to the a1 a2 a3 so i
taken the plus in between
so it is a1 a2 a3 plus b1 b2 so that is
your boolean equation and that for the
boolean equation
this is your uh dynamics imos logic
structure
so let us see the operation of this
circuit in the dynamic cmos logic
structure
here a single clock phase has been used
five phi
and that happens upon the evaluate and
reach our state evaluate means what log
clock equal to one
recharge means what clock equal to uh
zero so now i have taken clock equal to
five
whenever the clock equal to zero that is
a low low state
now what happens only the pmos is turned
on pmos is turned on and
footer invoices turned off now in this
case what happens
the vdd will be uh will be dragged to
the output so that the capacitor here
whichever the capacitor is connected
output will be
fully charged so that's why you can see
you know the pmos pre-charges the
transistor
mp charges output to vdd so now this v
out will become equal to vdd
approximately will become vdd
so therefore it will remain in the
linear region during the final
pre-charge state
so because whenever it is a zero
whenever the clock equal to zero
your output is going to be one the
output is going to be one
now during this time the logic input a
a one two b b two are active
r active means what uh here all the
transistors are
uh working uh depending upon the values
which are given to here
given to these two gates a1 a2 a3 b1 b2
so now whenever this one and you can
even see in this one
since the clock equal to zero the this
one m a will become off
therefore no charge will be lost from
the v out no charges lost from the v
auto means since this are active if all
these
nmos are on then only the vdd will
discharge
then all the vr will discharge to this
particular point but since they are not
on
only if you are on if you are off they
are acting in some other case some of
the case
the output will not be lost so whenever
the clock equal to high what happens if
clock equal to high
because of that one the pmos is turned
off nmos is turned on
inverse is turned on if nmos is turned
on what happens
allowing for output to be selectively
discharged selectively discharge means
what
the output if b1 and b2 are turned on
since we
both are nmos whenever i supply logic
one to this both the inputs
if these are turned on then only the
output can move from this part
from this path to the ground that is the
meaning of selectively discharging
or else if if this three are turned on
then the output can move from the
capacitor through this a1 a2 and a3
so this is a meaning of what is meant by
selectively discharging
can you tell what is the first point
first point is like whenever the
five uh clock is equal to zero if clock
equal to zero
uh the gate voltage which is supply here
here is
zero and this is one of the query which
has been asked to me right
now so now if clock equal to zero the
pmos is turned
on the pmos will be turned on whenever
the gate voltage is equal to zero
nmos will be turned off whenever the
gate voltage is equal to zero it means
that
at gate voltage equal to zero the pmos
will be turned on and nmos will be
turned off
so now in the clock one whenever the
clock equal to zero the pmos is turned
on
a channel has been created through that
particular channel the vtd will be
now moves from vdd to the output why
because the potential
difference has been created but due to
that potential difference
uh in order to have an equilibrium in
the potential the vdd moves from
the logic one will move from this point
to the
capacitor which is stored which is
connected to the output
in that case the capacitor will be fully
charged that's the meaning of this one
the output mp charges the output to vdd
means the logic one will be obtained at
the capacitor which is connected to the
output
so next one whenever the phi is equal to
high the mp is turned off and the nmos
evaluate will be turned on
if this is turned on depending upon this
transistor depending upon the onstage of
this transistor
the output will be discharged through
the ground that is the meaning of
selective discharging
the selective discharging will be taken
place allowing for the output to be
selectively discharged to the ground
depending upon the logical
inputs logical inputs means this a1 a2
a3 gate
inputs if in a1 to a b2
inputs are are such that conductive path
existing between v
out and me then the b out is discharged
to zero
if all these transistors are turned on
if all this transfer a1 a2 a3 b1 b2 b3
and b2
all are turned on means what i have
given a logic one to all the gates of
this transistor if it is turned on
then whatever the complete uh there is a
complete path has been created between
the v
out and uh ground so the complete
discharging of the
signal takes place from the output to
ground that's the meaning of this one
the output will be discharged to zero
otherwise the v out remains to
bdd if this is not turned on let me
assume that
this a2 a3 and b2 are turned on
but a a1 and b b1 are not turned on
then what happens there is no other way
for the output to discharge to
ground so the output will be vdd only
why because there is no channel
created for this a1 and b1 the output
cannot
discharge to the ground so that's the
meaning of otherwise the v out
it will remain at vdd
this is another network another network
you can see the operation here
uh pre-charged and evaluated recharge
means logic uh
clock equal to zero evaluate means clock
equal to one
uh okay now here we will
complete this particular part and we'll
wind up
or else i think it's time
up as of now why because i have come up
with more uh
yeah time is up because i have come up
with nearly 60 slides today
in order to deal these topics 60 to 65
but it's a very huge concept uh i hope
you understood now uh
up to now
yes yeah the dynamic cmos logic means
always keep in your mind it will be
having one pmos as
a pull-up network and sorry as a pull-up
device and a
n-mos has a pull-down device which is
taken as a footer in between you will be
having your boolean equation
network see this is a boolean equation
network this is a
pre-charge transistor and this is a uh
what is that evaluate transistor
but in between all this other boolean
equation what is the boolean equation a
dot b plus c
plus b dot e whole bar
so like that you should try to
understand the network in tomorrow's
class we'll try to complete as much as
we can
and we'll see that operations okay thank
you everyone thank you for
listening this particular class
excuse me sir yeah please tell me sir
something there is a doubt with
four to well i'm unmuting
could you please tell again i'm unable
to hear you
something there is a doubt with food
where it seems
something there is doubt there is a
doubt for
me yes
yeah is this one i said yeah please tell
me
sir here when clock is high end
inverse will
whenever the clock is zero what has
happened let me assume that first stage
is my clock equal to zero
then what happens this will be turned
off this nmos is turned off and this
will be turned on
in this state only the vtd will be
pre-charged means what
your capacitance is now fully charged
with the value of vdd
okay is it okay that is the previous
state
now let us come to your point your point
is what whenever clock equal to high
whenever clock equal to high whatever
you told is correct the pmos is turned
off and nmos is turned on is it okay
now you're talking about this one right
v out remains vdd
could you please talk to me
could you please talk to me anyone yes
sir
this is your point how it is we be out
will remain videos
yeah how the way out is remain weeded it
means what has happened in the previous
state
your capacitor is fully charged right
forget about now in this state the pmos
is off
whenever the capacitor is fully charged
see this point
if a1 to b2 if a1 to b2 means all this
transistor phi transistor
which is an a1 a2 a3 plus b1 b2
operation
are such that conducting the path exists
if all
if all are on if all are on means what
for all this value the gate voltage is
given as zeros
sorry for all these gates the input is
given as logic one logic one logic one
logic one logic one
whenever the gate is given a gate input
has given us logic one
all those transfers will be turned on
then we did a v odd will become zero
why because the previous state uh
will be moving to the ground but
otherwise
otherwise otherwise means what if these
transistors are not turned on
that's why i have given example if a2 a3
and
b2 are turned on but a1 and 8
b1 are turned off turned off means there
is no path
for from this point from this drain of
this a1
and from the drain of b1 to reach to the
drain off
i hope you can understand telugu right
because of that reason the vdd cannot
discharge to the ground because this
both are off
otherwise the vr remains vdd i hope my
your point is clear now sir if all our
affirmative
also output output is vdd
focus if all our off means there is no
point for the vdd to the capacitor to
discharge to the ground
why does the discharging takes place
because of the potential difference
potential difference while a name yes
that discharging will takes place
and when all are on uh the capacitor
will discharge
yeah when all are on the capacitor will
discharge or else or else if these two
are on also
if all these are off and these two are
off also there is a path created
from this point to the ground even in
that case also the capacitance will
discharge capacitor will discharge
okay okay okay
okay thank you thank you and tomorrow's
class we'll study in more detail about
few more operations and we'll go to the
domino logic
okay thank you i'm i'm leaving this
session
[Music]